# Table Of Content

<details><summary>

[Click ‣ to expand content](#)</summary><blockquote>
    <details><summary>[Semester 3](Semester%203)</summary><blockquote>
        <details><summary>[Business Communication Skills](Semester%203/BCS)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[1](Semester%203/BCS/SWOT%20Analysis.pdf)</td><td>**SWOT analysis**<br>The students should be made aware of their goals, strengths and weaknesses, attitude, moral values, self-confidence, etiquettes, non-verbal skills, achievements. through this activity. SWOT Analysis, Confidence improvement, values, positive attitude, positive thinking and self-esteem. The concern teacher should prepare a questionnaire which evaluate students in all the above areas and make them aware about these aspects.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[2](Semester%203/BCS/Short%20and%20Long%20term%20goals.pdf)</td><td>**Personal and Career Goal setting – Short term and Long term**<br>The teacher should explain to them on how to set goals and provide template to write their short term and long term goals.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[3](Semester%203/BCS/Public%20Speaking.pdf)</td><td>**Public Speaking**<br>Any one of the following activities may be conducted :<br>**1. Prepared speech** (Topics are given in advance, students get 10 minutes to prepare the speech and 5 minutes to deliver.)<br>**2. Extempore speech** (Students deliver speeches spontaneously for 5 minutes each on a given topic)<br>**3. Story telling** (Each student narrates a fictional or real life story for 5 minutes each)<br>**4. Oral review** ( Each student orally presents a review on a story or a book read by them)</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[5](Semester%203/BCS/Group%20Discussion.pdf)</td><td>**Group discussion**<br>Group discussions could be done for groups of 5-8 students at a time Two rounds of a GD for each group should be conducted and teacher should give them feedback.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[6](Semester%203/BCS/Letter%20Writing.pdf)</td><td>**Letter/Application writing**<br>Each student will write one formal letter, and one application. The teacher should teach the students how to write the letter and application. The teacher should give proper format and layouts.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[7](Semester%203/BCS/Report%20Writing.pdf)</td><td>**Report writing**<br>The teacher should teach the students how to write report .The teacher should give proper format and layouts. Each student will write one report based on visit / project / business proposal.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[8](Semester%203/BCS/Resume.pdf)</td><td>**Resume writing** - Guide students and instruct them to write resume</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[9](Semester%203/BCS/Presentation%20Skill.pdf)</td><td>**Presentation Skill**<br>Students should make a presentation on any informative topic of their choice. The topic may be technical or non-technical. The teacher should guide them on effective presentation skills. Each student should make a presentation for at least 10 minutes.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[13](Semester%203/BCS/Mock%20Interviews.pdf)</td><td>**Mock interviews** - guide students and conduct mock interviews</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[14](Semester%203/BCS/Telephone%20Conversation.pdf)</td><td>**Telephonic etiquettes** - To teach students the skills to communicate effectively over the phone.<br>Students will be divided into pairs. Each pair will be given different situations, such as phone call to enquire about job vacancy, scheduling a meeting with team members, phone call for requesting of urgent leave from higher authorities. Students will be given 10 min to prepare. Assessment will be done on the basis of performance during the telephone call.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[15](Semester%203/BCS/Email%20Writing.pdf)</td><td>**Email etiquettes** - To provide students with an in-depth understanding of email skills.<br>Students will be made to send e-mails for different situations such as sending an e-mail to the principal for a leave, inviting a friend for a party, e-mail to enquire about room tariff of a hotel. Students will be assessed on the basis of e-mail such as clarity, purpose and proof reading of e-mail.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Computer Graphics](Semester%203/CG)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[A1](Semester%203/CG/A1.pdf)</td><td>Write C++ program to draw a concave polygon and fill it with desired color using scan fill algorithm. Apply the concept of inheritance.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A2](Semester%203/CG/A2.pdf)</td><td>Write C++ program to implement Cohen Southerland line clipping algorithm.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A3a](Semester%203/CG/A3a.pdf)</td><td>Write C++ program to draw the following pattern. Use DDA line and Bresenham‘s circle drawing algorithm. Apply the concept of encapsulation.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B4a](Semester%203/CG/B4a.pdf)</td><td>Write C++ program to draw 2-D object and perform following basic transformations, a) Scaling b) Translation c) Rotation. Apply the concept of operator overloading.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B5c](Semester%203/CG/B5c.pdf)</td><td>Write C++ program to generate fractal patterns by using Koch curves.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[C6c](Semester%203/CG/C6c.pdf)</td><td>Write OpenGL program to draw Sun Rise and Sunset.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[C7c](Semester%203/CG/C7c.pdf)</td><td>Write C++ program to draw man walking in the rain with an umbrella. Apply the concept of polymorphism.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[8](Semester%203/CG/GIMP%20Case%20Study.pdf)</td><td>Design and implement game / animation clip / Graphics Editor using open source graphics library. Make use of maximum features of Object Oriented Programming.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Digital Electronics and Logic Design](Semester%203/DELD)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Fundamentals of Data Structures](Semester%203/FDS)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[A2](Semester%203/FDS/A2.py)</td><td>Write a Python program to store marks scored in subject “Fundamental of Data Structure” by N students in the class. Write functions to compute following:<br>a) The average score of class<br>b) Highest score and lowest score of class<br>c) Count of students who were absent for the test<br>d) Display mark with highest frequency</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A5](Semester%203/FDS/A5.py)</td><td>Write a Python program to compute following operations on String:<br>a) To display word with the longest length<br>b) To determines the frequency of occurrence of particular character in the string<br>c) To check whether given string is palindrome or not<br>d) To display index of first appearance of the substring<br>e) To count the occurrences of each word in a given string<br></td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A9](Semester%203/FDS/A9.py)</td><td>Write a Python program to compute following computation on matrix:<br>a) Addition of two matrices<br>b) Subtraction of two matrices<br>c) Multiplication of two matrices<br>d) Transpose of a matrix</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B11](Semester%203/FDS/B11.py)</td><td>a) Write a Python program to store roll numbers of student in array who attended training program in random order. Write function for searching whether particular student attended training program or not, using Linear search and Sentinel search.<br>b) Write a Python program to store roll numbers of student array who attended training program in sorted order. Write function for searching whether particular student attended training program or not, using Binary search and Fibonacci search</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B14](Semester%203/FDS/B14.py)</td><td>Write a Python program to store first year percentage of students in array. Write function for sorting array of floating point numbers in ascending order using:<br>a) Selection Sort<br>b) Bubble sort and display top five scores.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B16](Semester%203/FDS/B16.py)</td><td>Write a Python program to store first year percentage of students in array. Write function for sorting array of floating point numbers in ascending order using quick sort and display top five scores.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[C19](Semester%203/FDS/C19.cpp)</td><td>Department of Computer Engineering has student's club named 'Pinnacle Club'. Students of second, third and final year of department can be granted membership on request. Similarly one may cancel the membership of club. First node is reserved for president of club and last node is reserved for secretary of club. Write C++ program to maintain club member‘s information using singly linked list. Store student PRN and Name. Write functions to:<br>a) Add and delete the members as well as president or even secretary.<br>b) Compute total number of members of club<br>c) Display members<br>d) Two linked lists exists for two divisions. Concatenate two lists.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[C21](Semester%203/FDS/C21.cpp)</td><td>Write C++ program for storing appointment schedule for day. Appointments are booked randomly using linked list. Set start and end time and min and max duration for visit slot. Write functions for -<br>A) Display free slots<br>B) Book appointment<br>C) Sort list based on time<br>D) Cancel appointment (check validity, time bounds, availability)<br>E) Sort list based on time using pointer manipulation</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[D26](Semester%203/FDS/D26.cpp)</td><td>In any language program mostly syntax error occurs due to unbalancing delimiter such as (),{},[]. Write C++ program using stack to check whether given expression is well parenthesized or not.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[D27](Semester%203/FDS/D27.cpp)</td><td>Implement C++ program for expression conversion as infix to postfix and its evaluation using stack based on given conditions:<br>1. Operands and operator, both must be single character.<br>2. Input Postfix expression must be in a desired format.<br>3. Only '+', '-', '*' and '/ ' operators are expected.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[E29](Semester%203/FDS/E29.cpp)</td><td>Queues are frequently used in computer programming, and a typical example is the creation of a job queue by an operating system. If the operating system does not use priorities, then the jobs are processed in the order they enter the system. Write C++ program for simulating job queue. Write functions to add job and delete job from queue.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[E31](Semester%203/FDS/E31.cpp)</td><td>A double-ended queue (deque) is a linear list in which additions and deletions may be made at either end. Obtain a data representation mapping a deque into a one-dimensional array. Write C++ program to simulate deque with functions to add and delete elements from either end of the deque.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[E32](Semester%203/FDS/E32.cpp)</td><td>Pizza parlor accepting maximum M orders. Orders are served in first come first served basis. Order once placed cannot be cancelled. Write C++ program to simulate the system using circular queue using array.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Humanity and Social Science](Semester%203/HSS)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[1](Semester%203/HSS/SPEECH%20ON%20CURRENT%20AFFAIR.pdf)</td><td>PREPARED SPEECH ON CURRENT AFFAIRS<br>a. Purpose – Get students to stay abreast and invested in national current affairs<br>b. Method – Each student has to read an editorial from any national paper (English), find out more information on the topic and present it to the class; ending the session with his/her opinion on the matter<br>c. Outcome – Awareness of national state of affairs. Improve on oratory skills. Instil the thinking and contemplative skills and form non-judgmental opinions about an issue</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[2](Semester%203/HSS/INDIA'S%20CULTURAL%20DIVERSITY.pptx)</td><td>UNDERSTANDING INDIA’S CULTURAL DIVERSITY<br>a. Purpose – Expose students to the intricacies of Indian cultural across various states<br>b. Method – Each student (or a small group of students in case the number of students is large) has to pick a state and come to the tutorial session prepared with a PPT that will showcase the demographic, sociographic and cultural information of that state<br>c. Outcome – Information about the beauty of Indian cultural diversity. Enhance exploratory skill, communication skills and learn to present using technological tools.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[3](Semester%203/HSS/ARTICLE%20ON%20SOCIAL%20ISSUE.pdf)</td><td>WRITING AN ARTICLE ON ANY SOCIAL ISSUE<br>a. Purpose – Highlight various social and cultural evil malevolence existing in our country and express one’s opinion on how it can be changed<br>b. Method – Each student will have to write a 200 word essay on any of existing social malice that is prevalent in society. On evaluation, the top 5 essays can be displayed on the college wall magazine and rewarded if deemed appropriate<br>c. Outcome – Learn to raise one’s voice against the wrong doings in communities. Build writing skills, improve language and gain knowledge about how to write an impactful essay</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[6](Semester%203/HSS/SCREEN%20A%20MOVIE.pdf)</td><td>SCREEN A MOVIE (FOCUS ON POSITIVITY AND POWER OF THE MIND)<br>a. Purpose – Expose students to introspective skills and try to develop a positive thinking in life<br>b. Method – Screen a movie / a documentary / a video that focuses on the power of the mind and how to create affirmations in one’s life. At the end of the movie, students can be asked to express their opinions and write down what changes / improvements they plan to take in their choices thereafter. This can be followed by a guest lecture by expert/s or workshop<br>c. Outcome – Comprehend the areas of improvement within themselves. Understand the importance of staying positive and develop affirmations</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[OOP and Computer Graphics Laboratory](Semester%203/OOPL)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[A1](Semester%203/OOPL/A1.cpp)</td><td>Implement a class Complex which represents the Complex Number data type. Implement the following:<br>1. Constructor (including a default constructor which creates the complex number 0+0i).<br>2. Overload operator+ to add two complex numbers.<br>3. Overload operator* to multiply two complex numbers.<br>4. Overload operators << and >> to print and read Complex Numbers.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A2](Semester%203/OOPL/A2.cpp)</td><td>Develop a program in C++ to create a database of student’s information system containing the following information: Name, Roll number, Class, Division, Date of Birth, Blood group, Contact address, Telephone number, Driving license no. and other. Construct the database with suitable member functions. Make use of constructor, default constructor, copy constructor, destructor, static member functions, friend class, this pointer, inline code and dynamic memory allocation operators-new and delete as well as exception handling.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A3](Semester%203/OOPL/A3.cpp)</td><td>Imagine a publishing company which does marketing for book and audio cassette versions. Create a class publication that stores the title (a string) and price (type float) of publications. From this class derive two classes: book which adds a page count (type int) and tape which adds a playing time in minutes (type float).<br>Write a program that instantiates the book and tape class, allows user to enter data and displays the data members. If an exception is caught, replace all the data member values with zero values.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B4](Semester%203/OOPL/B4.cpp)</td><td>Write a C++ program that creates an output file, writes information to it, closes the file, open it again as an input file and read the information from the file.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B5](Semester%203/OOPL/B5.cpp)</td><td>Write a function template for selection sort that inputs, sorts and outputs an integer array and a float array.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[C6](Semester%203/OOPL/C6.cpp)</td><td>Write C++ program using STL for sorting and searching user defined records such as personal records using vector container.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Project Based Learning](Semester%203/PBL)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
    </blockquote></details>
    <details><summary>[Semester 4](Semester%204)</summary><blockquote>
        <details><summary>[Data Structures and Algorithms Laboratory](Semester%204/DSAL)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[A1](Semester%204/DSAL/A1.cpp)</td><td>Consider telephone book database of N clients. Make use of a hash table implementation to quickly look up client‘s telephone number. Make use of two collision handling techniques and compare them using number of comparisons required to find a set of telephone numbers</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A2](Semester%204/DSAL/A2.cpp)</td><td>Implement all the functions of a dictionary (ADT) using hashing and handle collisions using chaining with / without replacement.<br>Data: Set of (key, value) pairs, Keys are mapped to values, Keys must be comparable, Keys must be unique. Standard Operations: Insert(key, value), Find(key), Delete(key)</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B5](Semester%204/DSAL/B5.cpp)</td><td>A book consists of chapters, chapters consist of sections and sections consist of subsections. Construct a tree and print the nodes. Find the time and space requirements of your method.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B6](Semester%204/DSAL/B6.cpp)</td><td>Beginning with an empty binary search tree, Construct binary search tree by inserting the values in the order given. After constructing a binary tree -<br>i. Insert new node<br>ii. Find number of nodes in longest path from root<br>iii. Minimum data value found in the tree<br>iv. Change a tree so that the roles of the left and right pointers are swapped at every node<br>v. Search a value</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B11](Semester%204/DSAL/B11.cpp)</td><td>Construct an expression tree from the given prefix expression eg. +--a*bc/def and traverse it using post order traversal (non recursive) and then delete the entire tree.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[C13](Semester%204/DSAL/C13.cpp)</td><td>Represent a given graph using adjacency matrix/list to perform DFS and using adjacency list to perform BFS. Use the map of the area around the college as the graph. Identify the prominent land marks as nodes and perform DFS and BFS on that.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[C15](Semester%204/DSAL/C15.cpp)</td><td>You have a business with several offices; you want to lease phone lines to connect them up with each other; and the phone company charges different amounts of money to connect different pairs of cities. You want a set of lines that connects all your offices with a minimum total cost. Solve the problem by suggesting appropriate data structures.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[D18](Semester%204/DSAL/D18.cpp)</td><td>Given sequence k = k1 &lt;k2 < … &lt;kn of n sorted keys, with a search probability pi for each key ki . Build the Binary search tree that has the least search cost given the access probability for each key?</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[D19](Semester%204/DSAL/D19.cpp)</td><td>A Dictionary stores keywords and its meanings. Provide facility for adding new keywords, deleting keywords, updating values of any entry. Provide facility to display whole data sorted in ascending/ Descending order. Also find how many maximum comparisons may require for finding any keyword. Use Height balance tree and find the complexity for finding a keyword</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[E22](Semester%204/DSAL/E22.cpp)</td><td>Read the marks obtained by students of second year in an online examination of particular subject. Find out maximum and minimum marks obtained in that subject. Use heap data structure. Analyze the algorithm.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[F23](Semester%204/DSAL/F23.cpp)</td><td>Department maintains a student information. The file contains roll number, name, division and address. Allow user to add, delete information of student. Display information of particular employee. If record of student does not exist an appropriate message is displayed. If it is, then the system displays the student details. Use sequential file to main the data.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[F24](Semester%204/DSAL/F24.cpp)</td><td>Company maintains employee information as employee ID, name, designation and salary. Allow user to add, delete information of employee. Display information of particular employee. If employee does not exist an appropriate message is displayed. If it is, then the system displays the employee details. Use index sequential file to maintain the data.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[MicroProcessor Laboratory](Semester%204/MPL)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[9](Semester%204/MPL/9.asm)</td><td>Write X86/64 ALP to perform overlapped block transfer with string specific instructions Block containing data can be defined in the data segment.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
    </blockquote></details>
    <details><summary>[Semester 5](Semester%205)</summary><blockquote>
        <details><summary>[Computer Networks & Security Laboratory](Semester%205/CNSL)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[5a](Semester%205/CNSL/CRC.c), [5b](Semester%205/CNSL/HAMMING.c)</td><td>Write a program to simulate Go back N and Selective Repeat Modes of Sliding Window Protocol in Peer-to-Peer mode.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Database Management Systems Laboratory](Semester%205/DBMSL)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[A1](Semester%205/DBMSL/A1.png)</td><td>**ER Modeling and Normalization:**<br>Decide a case study related to real time application in group of 2-3 students and formulate a problem statement for application to be developed. Propose a Conceptual Design using ER features using tools like ERD plus, ER Win etc. (Identifying entities, relationships between entities, attributes, keys, cardinalities, generalization, specialization etc.) Convert the ER diagram into relational tables and normalize Relational data model.<br>Note: Student groups are required to continue same problem statement throughout all the assignments in order to design and develop an application as a part Mini Project. Further assignments will be useful for students to develop a backend for system. To design front end interface students should use the different concepts learnt in the other subjects also.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A2](Semester%205/DBMSL/MySql-History.sql)</td><td>**SQL Queries:**<br>a. Design and Develop SQL DDL statements which demonstrate the use of SQL objects such as Table, View, Index, Sequence, Synonym, different constraints etc.<br>b. Write at least 10 SQL queries on the suitable database application using SQL DML statements<br>Note: Instructor will design the queries which demonstrate the use of concepts like Insert, Select, Update, Delete with operators, functions, and set operator etc.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A3](Semester%205/DBMSL/MySql-History.sql)</td><td>**SQL Queries - all types of Join, Sub-Query and View:**<br>Write at least 10 SQL queries for suitable database application using SQL DML statements.<br>Note: Instructor will design the queries which demonstrate the use of concepts like all types of Join, Sub-Query and View</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A4](Semester%205/DBMSL/MySql-History.sql)</td><td>**Unnamed PL/SQL code block: Use of Control structure and Exception handling is mandatory.**<br>Suggested Problem statement:<br>Consider Tables:<br>1. Borrower(Roll_no, Name, DateofIssue, NameofBook, Status)<br>2. Fine(Roll_no,Date,Amt)<br>Accept Roll_no & NameofBook from user.<br>● Check the number of days (from date of issue).<br>● If days are between 15 to 30 then fine amount will be Rs 5per day.<br>● If no. of days>30, per day fine will be Rs 50 per day & for days less than 30, Rs. 5 per day.<br>● After submitting the book, status will change from I to R.<br>● If condition of fine is true, then details will be stored into fine table.<br>● Also handles the exception by named exception handler or user define exception handler.<br>OR<br>Write a PL/SQL code block to calculate the area of a circle for a value of radius varying from 5 to 9. Store the radius and the corresponding values of calculated area in an empty table named areas, consisting of two columns, radius and area.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A5](Semester%205/DBMSL/MySql-History.sql)</td><td>**Named PL/SQL Block: PL/SQL Stored Procedure and Stored Function.**<br>Write a Stored Procedure namely proc_Grade for the categorization of student. If marks scored by students in examination is <=1500 and marks>=990 then student will be placed in distinction category if marks scored are between 989 and 900 category is first class, if marks 899 and 825 category is Higher Second Class<br>Write a PL/SQL block to use procedure created with above requirement.<br>Stud_Marks(name, total_marks), Result(Roll,Name, Class)<br>Note: Instructor will frame the problem statement for writing stored procedure & Function in line with above statement.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A6](Semester%205/DBMSL/MySql-History.sql)</td><td>**Cursors: (All types: Implicit, Explicit, Cursor FOR Loop, Parameterized Cursor)**<br>Write a PL/SQL block of code using parameterized Cursor that will merge the data available in the newly created table N_RollCall with the data available in the table O_RollCall. If the data in the first table already exist in the second table then that data should be skipped.<br>Note: Instructor will frame the problem statement for writing PL/SQL block using all types of Cursors in line with above statement.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A7](Semester%205/DBMSL/MySql-History.sql)</td><td>**Database Trigger (All Types: Row level and Statement level triggers, Before and After Triggers).**<br>Write a database trigger on Library table. The System should keep track of the records that are being updated or deleted. The old value of updated or deleted records should be added in Library_Audit table.<br>Note: Instructor will Frame the problem statement for writing PL/SQL block for all types of Triggers in line with above statement.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A8](Semester%205/DBMSL/mysql.py)</td><td>**Database Connectivity:**<br>Write a program to implement MYSQL/Oracle database connectivity with any front end language to implement Database navigation operations (add, delete, edit etc)</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B1](Semester%205/DBMSL/MongoDB-History.txt)</td><td>**MongoDB Queries:**<br>Design and Develop MongoDB Queries using CRUD operations. (Use CRUD operations, SAVE method, logical operators etc)</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B2](Semester%205/DBMSL/MongoDB-History.txt)</td><td>**MongoDB - Aggregation and Indexing:**<br>Design and Develop MongoDB Queries using aggregation and indexing with suitable example using MongoDB.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B3](Semester%205/DBMSL/MongoDB-History.txt)</td><td>**MongoDB - Map reduces operations:**<br>Implement Map reduces operation with suitable example using MongoDB.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B4](Semester%205/DBMSL/mongo.py)</td><td>**Database Connectivity:**<br>Write a program to implement MongoDB database connectivity with any front end language to implement Database navigation operations (add, delete, edit etc)</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[C1](Semester%205/DBMSL/Mini%20Project.pdf)</td><td>Using the database concepts covered in Group A & Group B, develop an application with following details:<br>1. Follow the same problem statement decided in Assignment -1 of Group A<br>2. Follow the Software Development Life cycle and other concepts learnt in Software Engineering Course throughout the implementation.<br>3. Develop application considering:<br>● Front End : Java/Perl/PHP/Python/Ruby/.net/any other language<br>● Backend : MongoDB/MySQL/Oracle<br>4. Test and validate application using Manual/Automation testing<br>5. Student should develop application in group of 2-3 students and submit the Project Report which will consist of documentation related to different phases of Software Development<br>Life Cycle:<br>● Title of the Project, Abstract, Introduction<br>● Software Requirement Specification<br>● Conceptual Design using ER features, Relational Model in appropriate Normalize form<br>● Graphical User Interface, Source Code<br>● Testing document<br>● Conclusion.<br></td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Laboratory Practice I](Semester%205/SPOS)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[1](Semester%205/SPOS/SPOS%20LABORATORY.pdf)</td><td>Design suitable Data structures and implement Pass-I and Pass-II of a two-pass assembler for pseudo-machine. Implementation should consist of a few instructions from each category and few assembler directives. The output of Pass-I (intermediate code file and symbol table) should be input for Pass-II</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[2](Semester%205/SPOS/SPOS%20LABORATORY.pdf)</td><td>Design suitable data structures and implement Pass-I and Pass-II of a two-pass macro-processor. The output of Pass-I (MNT, MDT and intermediate code file without any macro definitions) should be input for Pass-II.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[3](Semester%205/SPOS/SPOS%20LABORATORY.pdf)</td><td>Write a program to recognize infix expression using LEX and YAAC</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[4](Semester%205/SPOS/SPOS%20LABORATORY.pdf)</td><td>Write a program to solve Classical Problems of Synchronization using Mutex and Semaphore.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[5](Semester%205/SPOS/SPOS%20LABORATORY.pdf)</td><td>Implementation of CPU Scheduling Algorithms: FCFS , SJF (Preemptive), Priority (Non-Preemptive) and Round Robin (Preemptive)</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[6](Semester%205/SPOS/SPOS%20LABORATORY.pdf)</td><td>Implementation of Memory placement strategies – best fit, first fit, next fit & worst fit.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[7](Semester%205/SPOS/SPOS%20LABORATORY.pdf)</td><td>Implementation of Page replacement algorithm</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Seminar and Technical Communication](Semester%205/STC)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[Report](Semester%205/STC/SEMINAR%20REPORT.pdf)</td><td>● Each student will select a topic in the area of Computer Engineering and Technology preferably keeping track with recent technological trends and development beyond scope of syllabus avoiding repetition in consecutive years.<br>● The topic must be selected in consultation with the institute guide.<br>● Each student will make a seminar presentation using audio/visual aids for a duration of 20-25 minutes and submit the seminar report prepared in Latex only.<br>● Active participation at classmate seminars is essential.<br>● BoS has circulated the Seminar Log book and it is recommended to use it.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
    </blockquote></details>
    <details><summary>[Semester 6](Semester%206)</summary><blockquote>
        <details><summary>[Data Science and Big Data Analytics Laboratory](Semester%206/DSBDAL)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[A1](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A1)</td><td>**Data Wrangling I**<br>Perform the following operations using Python on any open source dataset (eg. data.csv)<br>1. Import all the required Python Libraries.<br>2. Locate an open source data from the web (eg. https://www.kaggle.com). Provide a clear description of the data and its source (i.e. URL of the web site).<br>3. Load the Dataset into pandas dataframe.<br>4. Data Preprocessing: check for missing values in the data using pandas isnull(), describe() function to get some initial statistics. Provide variable descriptions. Types of variables etc. Check the dimensions of the data frame.<br>5. Data Formatting and Data Normalization: Summarize the types of variables by checking the data types (i.e., character, numeric, integer, factor, and logical) of the variables in the data set. If variables are not in the correct data type, apply proper type conversions.<br>6. Turn categorical variables into quantitative variables in Python<br>In addition to the codes and outputs, explain every operation that you do in the above steps and explain everything that you do to import/read/scrape the data set.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A2](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A2)</td><td>**Data Wrangling II**<br>Perform the following operations using Python on any open source dataset (eg. data.csv)<br>1. Scan all variables for missing values and inconsistencies. If there are missing values and/or inconsistencies, use any of the suitable techniques to deal with them.<br>2. Scan all numeric variables for outliers. If there are outliers, use any of the suitable techniques to deal with them.<br>3. Apply data transformations on at least one of the variables. The purpose of this transformation should be one of the following reasons: to change the scale for better understanding of the variable, to convert a non-linear relation into a linear one, or to decrease the skewness and convert the distribution into a normal distribution.<br>Reason and document your approach properly.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A3](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A3)</td><td>**Basic Statistics - Measures of Central Tendencies and Variance**<br>Perform the following operations on any open source dataset (eg. data.csv)<br>1. Provide summary statistics (mean, median, minimum, maximum, standard deviation) for a dataset (age, income etc.) with numeric variables grouped by one of the qualitative (categorical) variable. For example, if your categorical variable is age groups and quantitative variable is income, then provide summary statistics of income grouped by the age groups. Create a list that contains a numeric value for each response to the categorical variable.<br>2. Write a Python program to display some basic statistical details like percentile, mean, standard deviation etc. of the species of ‘Iris-setosa’, ‘Iris-versicolor’ and ‘Iris-versicolor’ of iris.csv dataset.<br>Provide the codes with outputs and explain everything that you do in this step.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A4](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A4)</td><td>**Data Analytics I**<br>Create a Linear Regression Model using Python/R to predict home prices using Boston Housing Dataset (https://www.kaggle.com/c/boston-housing). The Boston Housing dataset contains information about various houses in Boston through different parameters. There are 506 samples and 14 feature variables in this dataset.<br>The objective is to predict the value of prices of the house using the given features.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A5](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A5)</td><td>**Data Analytics II**<br>1. Implement logistic regression using Python/R to perform classification on Social_Network_Ads.csv dataset<br>Compute Confusion matrix to find TP, FP, TN, FN, Accuracy, Error rate, Precision, Recall on the given dataset.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A6](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A6)</td><td>**Data Analytics III**<br>1. Implement Simple Naïve Bayes classification algorithm using Python/R on iris.csv dataset.<br>Compute Confusion matrix to find TP, FP, TN, FN, Accuracy, Error rate, Precision, Recall on the given dataset.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A7](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A7)</td><td>**Text Analytics**<br>1. Extract Sample document and apply following document preprocessing methods: Tokenization, POS Tagging, stop words removal, Stemming and Lemmatization.<br>Create representation of document by calculating Term Frequency and Inverse Document Frequency.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A8](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A8)</td><td>**Data Visualization I**<br>1. Use the inbuilt dataset 'titanic'. The dataset contains 891 rows and contains information about the passengers who boarded the unfortunate Titanic ship. Use the Seaborn library to see if we can find any patterns in the data.<br>Write a code to check how the price of the ticket (column name: 'fare') for each passenger is distributed by plotting a histogram</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A9](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A9)</td><td>**Data Visualization II**<br>1. Use the inbuilt dataset 'titanic' as used in the above problem. Plot a box plot for distribution of age with respect to each gender along with the information about whether they survived or not. (Column names : 'sex' and 'age')<br>Write observations on the inference from the above statistics.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A10](Semester%206/DSBDAL/A10)</td><td>**Data Visualization III**<br>Download the Iris flower dataset or any other dataset into a DataFrame. (https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Iris ). Scan the dataset and give the inference as:1. How many features are there and what are their types (e.g., numeric, nominal)?<br>2. Create a histogram for each feature in the dataset to illustrate the feature distributions.<br>3. Create a boxplot for each feature in the dataset.<br>Compare distributions and identify outliers.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B1](Semester%206/DSBDAL/B1)</td><td>Write a code in JAVA for a simple WordCount application that counts the number of occurrences of each word in a given input set using the Hadoop MapReduce framework on local-standalone set-up.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B2](Semester%206/DSBDAL/B2)</td><td>Design a distributed application using MapReduce which processes a log file of a system.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B3](Semester%206/DSBDAL/B3)</td><td>Locate dataset (eg. sample_weather.txt) for working on weather data which reads the text input files and finds average for temperature, dew point and wind speed.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B4](Semester%206/DSBDAL/B4)</td><td>Write a simple program in SCALA using Apache Spark framework.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Artificial Intelligence(Laboratory Practice II)](Semester%206/LP2)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[A1](Semester%206/LP2/A1)</td><td>Implement depth first search algorithm and Breadth First Search algorithm, Use an undirected graph and develop a recursive algorithm for searching all the vertices of a graph or tree data structure.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A2](Semester%206/LP2/A2)</td><td>Implement A star Algorithm for any game search problem.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[A3](Semester%206/LP2/A3)</td><td>Implement Greedy search algorithm for any of the following application:<br>I. Selection Sort<br>II. Minimum Spanning Tree<br>III. Single-Source Shortest Path Problem<br>IV. Job Scheduling Problem<br>V. Prim's Minimal Spanning Tree Algorithm<br>VI. Kruskal's Minimal Spanning Tree Algorithm<br>VII. Dijkstra's Minimal Spanning Tree Algorithm</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B4](Semester%206/LP2/B4)</td><td>Implement a solution for a Constraint Satisfaction Problem using Branch and Bound and Backtracking for n-queens problem or a graph colouring problem.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[B5](Semester%206/LP2/B5)</td><td>Develop an elementary chatbot for any suitable customer interaction application.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[C6](Semester%206/LP2/C6)</td><td>Implement any one of the following Expert System<br>[The Bird Identification System](https://www.amzi.com/ExpertSystemsInProlog/02usingprolog.php)</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Web Technology Laboratory](Semester%206/WTL)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[2](Semester%206/WTL/2)</td><td>Implement a web page index.htm for any client website (e.g. a restaurant website project) using following:<br>a. HTML syntax: heading tags, basic tags & attributes, frames, tables, images, lists, links for text & images, forms etc.<br>b. Use of Internal CSS, Inline CSS, External CSS</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[3](Semester%206/WTL/3)</td><td>Design the XML document to store the information of the employees of any business organization and demonstrate the use of:<br>a) DTD<br>b) XML Schema<br>And display the content in (e.g. tabular format) by using CSS/XSL.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[4](Semester%206/WTL/4)</td><td>Implement an application in Java Script using following:<br>a) Design UI of application using HTML, CSS etc.<br>b) Include Java script validation<br>c) Use of prompt and alert window using Java Script<br>e.g. Design & implement a simple calculator using Java Script for operations like addition, multiplication, subtraction, division, square of number etc.<br>a) Design calculator interface like text field for input & output, buttons for numbers and operators etc.<br>b) Validate input values<br>c) Prompt/alerts for invalid values etc.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[5](Semester%206/WTL/5)</td><td>Implement the sample program demonstrating the use of Servlet.<br>e.g. Create a database table ebookshop (book_id, book_title, book_author, book_price, quantity) using database like Oracle/MySQL etc. and display (use SQL select query) the table content using servlet.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[6](Semester%206/WTL/6)</td><td>Implement the program demonstrating the use of JSP.<br>e.g. Create a database table students_info (stud_id, stud_name, class, division, city) using database like Oracle/MySQL etc. and display (use SQL select query) the table content using JSP.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[7](Semester%206/WTL/7)</td><td>Build a dynamic web application using PHP and MySQL.<br>a. Create database tables in MySQL and create connection with PHP.<br>b. Create the add, update, delete and retrieve functions in the PHP web app interacting with MySQL database</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[8](Semester%206/WTL/8)</td><td>Design a login page with entries for name, mobile number email id and login button. Use struts and perform following validations:<br>a. Validation for correct names<br>b. Validation for mobile numbers<br>c. Validation for email id<br>d. Validation if no entered any value<br>e. Re-display for wrongly entered values with message<br>f. Congratulations and welcome page upon successful entries</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[9](Semester%206/WTL/9)</td><td>Design an application using Angular JS.<br>e.g. Design registration (first name, last name, username, password) and login page using Angular JS.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[10](Semester%206/WTL/10)</td><td>Design and implement a business interface with necessary business logic for any web application using EJB.<br>e.g. Design and implement the web application logic for deposit and withdraw amount transactions using EJB.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[11](Semester%206/WTL/Mini%20Project)</td><td>Mini Project: Design and implement a dynamic web application for any business functionality by using web development technologies that you have learnt in the above given assignments.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
        <details><summary>[Cloud Computing](Semester%206/CC)</summary><blockquote>
        <table>
            <tr><th>Experiment Folder</th><th>Experiment Aim</th></tr>
            <tr><td>[1](Semester%206/CC/1.pdf)</td><td>Case study on Amazon EC2 and learn about Amazon EC2 web services.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[2](Semester%206/CC/2.pdf)</td><td>Installation and configure Google App Engine.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[3](Semester%206/CC/3.pdf)</td><td>Creating an Application in SalesForce.com using Apex programming Language.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[4](Semester%206/CC/4.pdf)</td><td>Design and develop custom Application (Mini Project) using Salesforce Cloud</td></tr>
            <tr><td>[5](Semester%206/CC/Mini%20Project%20REPORT.pdf)</td><td>Setup your own cloud for Software as a Service (SaaS) over the existing LAN in your laboratory.<br>In this assignment you have to write your own code for cloud controller using open-source technologies to implement with HDFS. Implement the basic operations may be like to divide the file in segments/blocks and upload/ download file on/from cloud in encrypted form.</td></tr>
        </table>
        </blockquote></details>
    </blockquote></details>
</blockquote></details>
